Over the next few sections,
we'll walk through some terms that are new and some that might be familiar already.
We'll take some time to walk through how each of them relates to the Ethereum protocol.
In this video, we'll start that discussion by exploring the state of a blockchain.
This term hasn't come up much yet,
so we'll first define what we mean by state.
From there, we'll compare how state is handled in Bitcoin versus Ethereum.
How a blockchain manages information within its data storage layer determines its state.
It's defined by variables,
like how the protocol handles transactions,
keys, fees and other information.
In Bitcoin, unspent transaction outputs or
UTXOs are what represent the state of the blockchain.
You can use this state to figure out other information.
For example, you can use the sum of
these UTXOs to find the number of Bitcoins owned by a user.
What's interesting in Bitcoin is that it doesn't
have a way to represent an account balance.
That information isn't held anywhere.
It's found by referring to the state of the blockchain.
But it isn't an actual number you can find in the records.
Instead, the account balance of a user is the sum of
each UTXO owned by the users of a private key.
That's different from Ethereum in a few important ways.
For one, the Ethereum state can manage much more than unspent transaction outputs.
Ethereum can hold these account balances.
On top of that,
it holds a few other fields like the Nonce, Balance,
Storage Hash, Code Hash,
Account Storage and Ethereum Virtual Code.
This state holds a list of all accounts and creates
a mapping between an address and an account State.
This might be a little vague right now.
And that's because it's actually a brand new conceptual idea. Here's what that means.
Where in Bitcoin all information stays on the blockchain,
Ethereum does this a little different.
In Ethereum, the account state is separate.
It is removed from the blockchain,
but holds information about the state of the blockchain.
The blockchain is still the ledger that maintains the history of transactions.
This other information including accounts,
addresses, and balances exists along with this state.
Ethereum maps this information to the blockchain
allowing it to track things like the account balance of user.
This is possible because of something known as a Patricia tree.
Trees are common data structures and you may be
familiar with ones like binary trees or heaps.
Patricia is an acronym.
It stands for practical algorithm to retrieve
information coded in alphanumeric. That's a mouthful.
And without diving too far into the details,
the main benefit of this structure relates to storage.
It allows Ethereum to store values in a way that expands
the state to include the account values we mentioned earlier.
That wraps up a quick overview of
blockchain state and how it differs between Bitcoin and Ethereum.
Coming up, we'll look at how these states are determined
by looking at account types on the Ethereum platform.